---
layout: default
title: Deploying to a multi-organization Hyperledger Fabric
category: tutorials
section: tutorials
index-order: 305
sidebar: sidebars/accordion-toc0.md
---

# Deploying a {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} blockchain business network to {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} (multiple organizations)

This tutorial provides an insight into the process for configuring a blockchain network, spanning multiple organizations.

It outlines the steps you need configure a {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} based multi-organisation blockchain network. The two-organisation blockchain network is based on a sample network provided by {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}}. Furthermore, it describes the steps to generate the necessary security artifacts and secure the network in either organization.

Once the blockchain network is configured, we show how to deploy a business network (eg. a Commodity trading business network from our sample networks), which runs in its own chaincode container and which is instantiated on the ledger shared across both organizations. We then show interactions with the shared ledger as different participants / identities, as generated by an Identity provider in each organization.

It is recommended that you first follow the accompanying singie organization tutorial first ; this tutorial demonstrates how to deploy a blockchain network to an instance of {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} for a single organization, and will explain some of the concepts in more detail.

The {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} blockchain network (for two organizations) in this tutorial is configured using docker containers,  with both organizations' fabric networks, on the same machine - obviously, in the real world, they'll be in separate IP networks or domains, or secure Cloud environments.

The tutorial has colour-coded steps for convenience, to indicate 'which organization' should follow a particular step or sequence - or indeed, if steps are needed for both Orgs.

The first kind of step is for both organizations to follow:

<h2 class='everybody'>Example Step: A step for Org1 and Org2 to follow</h2>

The organization `Org1` is represented by Alice, the Green Conga Block:

<h2 class='alice'>Example Step: A step for Org1 to follow</h2>

The organization `Org2` is represented by Bob, the Violet Conga Block:

<h2 class='bob'>Example Step: A step for Org2 to follow</h2>

You can follow these steps by yourself, or pair with a friend or colleague and follow the steps together.

Let's get started!

<h2 class='everybody'>Prerequisites</h2>

If you have previously installed the Composer development environment, you will need to first tear down the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} containers provided by the development environment:

    cd ~/fabric-dev-servers
    {{site.data.conrefs.export_fabric_version_command}}
    ./stopFabric.sh
    ./teardownFabric.sh

Next, clone the following GitHub Fabric Samples repository using the command line (IMPORTANT: DO NOT USE the samples from the [Fabric site:](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/build_network.html) as it is missing some changes that are required for this tutorial)

    git clone https://github.com/mahoney1/fabric-samples.git

We are using the  [Building Your First Network](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/build_network.html) Fabric sample network for this multi-org tutorial. We will refer to this {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network as the 'BYFN' (Building Your First Network) network henceforth. If you choose to split your organisations across separate physical machines or separate virtual machines running on different IP networks, it is outside the scope of this particular tutorial.

<h2 class='everybody'>Step One: Starting a {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network</h2>

In order to follow this tutorial, you must start up a fresh {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network. This tutorial will assume that you use the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network provided in the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} [Building Your First Network tutorial](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/latest/build_network.html).

1. change directory to `fabric-samples`

        cd fabric-samples

2. Download the platform binaries, including cryptogen using this command (three parameters needed for the bash command):

        curl -sSL http://bit.ly/2ysbOFE | bash -s 1.2.1 1.2.1 0.4.10

    Verify the list of docker images downloaded without issues.
    
    (Please note that you can ignore the initial "error: pathspec v1.x.x did not match" message in the output - you may not even see this message)

3. We need to use the 'multi-org' branch from the Git repo we cloned earlier (to work with current Fabric level):

        git checkout multi-org
        
4. change directory into `first-network` sample

        cd first-network

5. Next, start the BYFN network - additional flags (to the `byfn.sh` script below) must be specified, as we're using CouchDB as the world state database (different to that specified on the Fabric BYFN page) - we also want to start a Certificate Authority (CA) for **each** organization.

6. Execute the following commands in sequence from the `first-network` directory:

        ./byfn.sh -m generate

        ./byfn.sh -m up -s couchdb -a

If the command works successfully, the first command will generate Fabric network / security artifacts(see this [link](http://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release/build_network.html#generate-network-artifacts for more info). Following the second command (above), the BYFN network is started, and verify that you see the following output before proceeding:

    ========= All GOOD, BYFN execution completed ===========


    _____   _   _   ____
    | ____| | \ | | |  _ \
    |  _|   |  \| | | | | |
    | |___  | |\  | | |_| |
    |_____| |_| \_| |____/

Next, delete any 'old' business network cards that may exist in your wallet from previous Fabric environments. It is safe to ignore any errors that state that the business network cards cannot be found:

    composer card delete -c PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1
    composer card delete -c PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2
    composer card delete -c alice@trade-network
    composer card delete -c bob@trade-network
    composer card delete -c admin@trade-network
    composer card delete -c PeerAdmin@fabric-network

However any other types of failure could indicate you have cards in the card store which are from an older version of {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} and you will then have to delete your file system card store in your HOME directory as follows:

    rm -fr $HOME/.composer

<h2 class='everybody'>Step Two: Exploring the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network</h2>

This step will explore the BFYN network configuration and components. The configuration details are required to complete the subsequent steps.

#### Organizations

The BYFN network is made up of two organizations: `Org1` and `Org2`. The organization `Org1` uses the domain name `org1.example.com`. The Membership Services Provider (MSP) for `Org1` is called `Org1MSP`. The organization `Org2` uses the domain name `org2.example.com`. The MSP for `Org2` is called `Org2MSP`. In this tutorial, you will deploy a blockchain business network that both of the organizations `Org1` and `Org2` can interact with.

#### Network components

The {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network is made up of several components:

- Two peer nodes for `Org1`, named `peer0.org1.example.com` and `peer1.org1.example.com`.
    - The request port for `peer0` is 7051.
    - The event hub port for `peer0` is 7053.
    - The request port for `peer1` is 8051.
    - The event hub port for `peer1` is 8053.
- A single CA (Certificate Authority) for `Org1`, named `ca.org1.example.com`.
    - The CA port is 7054.
- Two peer nodes for `Org2`, named `peer0.org2.example.com` and `peer1.org2.example.com`.
    - The request port for `peer0` is 9051.
    - The event hub port for `peer0` is 9053.
    - The request port for `peer1` is 10051.
    - The event hub port for `peer1` is 10053.
- A single CA (Certificate Authority) for `Org2`, named `ca.org2.example.com`.
    - The CA port is 8054.
- A single orderer node, named `orderer.example.com`.
    - The orderer port is 7050.

These components are running inside Docker containers. When running {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} within a Docker container, the names above (for example, `peer0.org1.example.com`) can be used to interact with the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network.

This tutorial will run {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} commands on the Docker host machine, rather than from inside the Docker network. This means that the {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} commands must interact with the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network using `localhost` as the host name and the exposed container ports.

All of the network components are secured using TLS to encrypt communications. You will need the Certificate Authority (CA) certificates for all of the network components in order to connect to those network components. The CA certificates can be found in the directory containing the byfn.sh script.

CA certificate for the orderer node:

    crypto-config/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/tls/ca.crt

CA certificate for `Org1`:

    crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt

CA certificate for `Org2`:

    crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt

You will use these files later on to interact with the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network.

#### Users

The organization `Org1` is configured with a user named `Admin@org1.example.com`. This user is an administrator.

The user `Admin@org1.example.com` has a set of certificates and private key files stored in the directory:

    crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/Admin@org1.example.com/msp

The organization `Org2` is configured with a user named `Admin@org2.example.com`. This user is an administrator.

The user `Admin@org2.example.com` has a set of certificates and private key files stored in the directory:

    crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/Admin@org2.example.com/msp

You will use some of these files later on to interact with the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network.

In addition to the administrator, the CAs (Certificate Authorities) for `Org1` and `Org2` have been configured with a default user. This default user has an enrolment ID of `admin` and an enrolment secret of `adminpw`. However, this user does not have permission to deploy a blockchain business network.

It is recommended to create a temporary working directory (and subdirectories) to manage the Composer connection profiles and key/certificate files that we will work with later on in the tutorial.


    mkdir -p /tmp/composer/org1

    mkdir -p /tmp/composer/org2

#### Channel

A channel named `mychannel` has been created. All four peer nodes - `peer0.org1.example.com`, `peer1.org1.example.com`, `peer0.org2.example.com`, and `peer1.org2.example.com` have been joined to this channel.

#### Connection Profiles

We need a base connection profile that describes this fabric network which can then be given to `alice` and `bob` to customize for their organization.

    {
        "name": "byfn-network",
        "x-type": "hlfv1",
        "version": "1.0.0",
        "channels": {
            "mychannel": {
                "orderers": [
                    "orderer.example.com"
                ],
                "peers": {
                    "peer0.org1.example.com": {
                        "endorsingPeer": true,
                        "chaincodeQuery": true,
                        "eventSource": true
                    },
                    "peer1.org1.example.com": {
                        "endorsingPeer": true,
                        "chaincodeQuery": true,
                        "eventSource": true
                    },
                    "peer0.org2.example.com": {
                        "endorsingPeer": true,
                        "chaincodeQuery": true,
                        "eventSource": true
                    },
                    "peer1.org2.example.com": {
                        "endorsingPeer": true,
                        "chaincodeQuery": true,
                        "eventSource": true
                    }
                }
            }
        },
        "organizations": {
            "Org1": {
                "mspid": "Org1MSP",
                "peers": [
                    "peer0.org1.example.com",
                    "peer1.org1.example.com"
                ],
                "certificateAuthorities": [
                    "ca.org1.example.com"
                ]
            },
            "Org2": {
                "mspid": "Org2MSP",
                "peers": [
                    "peer0.org2.example.com",
                    "peer1.org2.example.com"
                ],
                "certificateAuthorities": [
                    "ca.org2.example.com"
                ]
            }
        },
        "orderers": {
            "orderer.example.com": {
                "url": "grpcs://localhost:7050",
                "grpcOptions": {
                    "ssl-target-name-override": "orderer.example.com"
                },
                "tlsCACerts": {
                    "pem": "INSERT_ORDERER_CA_CERT"
                }
            }
        },
        "peers": {
            "peer0.org1.example.com": {
                "url": "grpcs://localhost:7051",
                "grpcOptions": {
                    "ssl-target-name-override": "peer0.org1.example.com"
                },
                "tlsCACerts": {
                    "pem": "INSERT_ORG1_CA_CERT"
                }
            },
            "peer1.org1.example.com": {
                "url": "grpcs://localhost:8051",
                "grpcOptions": {
                    "ssl-target-name-override": "peer1.org1.example.com"
                },
                "tlsCACerts": {
                    "pem": "INSERT_ORG1_CA_CERT"
                }
            },
            "peer0.org2.example.com": {
                "url": "grpcs://localhost:9051",
                "grpcOptions": {
                    "ssl-target-name-override": "peer0.org2.example.com"
                },
                "tlsCACerts": {
                    "pem": "INSERT_ORG2_CA_CERT"
                }
            },
            "peer1.org2.example.com": {
                "url": "grpcs://localhost:10051",
                "grpcOptions": {
                    "ssl-target-name-override": "peer1.org2.example.com"
                },
                "tlsCACerts": {
                    "pem": "INSERT_ORG2_CA_CERT"
                }
            }
        },
        "certificateAuthorities": {
            "ca.org1.example.com": {
                "url": "https://localhost:7054",
                "caName": "ca-org1",
                "httpOptions": {
                    "verify": false
                }
            },
            "ca.org2.example.com": {
                "url": "https://localhost:8054",
                "caName": "ca-org2",
                "httpOptions": {
                    "verify": false
                }
            }
        }
    }




Copy this base file (above) into a new file  `byfn-network.json` under the new directory `/tmp/composer` and save it.

Open `byfn-network.json` and replace all instances of the text `INSERT_ORG1_CA_CERT` with the CA certificate for the peer nodes for `Org1`: - use the following command to get the certificate from the .pem file so that it can be embedded into the above connection profile.

    awk 'NF {sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s\\n",$0;}' crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/peers/peer0.org1.example.com/tls/ca.crt > /tmp/composer/org1/ca-org1.txt

Copy the contents of the file `/tmp/composer/org1/ca-org1.txt` and replace the text `INSERT_ORG1_CA_CERT` in the .json file. It should now look something like this (must be a single line in the profile file as shown)

```
"pem": "-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----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\n4l25e1oS+gIgBiU/aBwSxY0uambwMB6xtQz0ZE/D4lyTZZcW9SODlOE=\n-----END CERTIFICATE-----\n"
```

In the same .json file - you need to replace all instances of the text `INSERT_ORG2_CA_CERT` with the CA certificate for the peer nodes for `Org2`:  - use the following command to convert the .pem file to something that can be embedded into the above connection profile.

    awk 'NF {sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s\\n",$0;}' crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/peers/peer0.org2.example.com/tls/ca.crt > /tmp/composer/org2/ca-org2.txt

Copy the contents of the file `/tmp/composer/org2/ca-org2.txt` and replace the text called `INSERT_ORG2_CA_CERT`. Once again, all on the same line.

Replace all instances of the text `INSERT_ORDERER_CA_CERT` with the CA certificate for the orderer node:  use the following command to convert the .pem file to something that can be embedded into the above connection profile json file.

    awk 'NF {sub(/\r/, ""); printf "%s\\n",$0;}' crypto-config/ordererOrganizations/example.com/orderers/orderer.example.com/tls/ca.crt > /tmp/composer/ca-orderer.txt

Copy the contents of the file `/tmp/composer/ca-orderer.txt`  and replace the text `INSERT_ORDERER_CA_CERT`. Once again, all on the same line.

Once done, save this file as  `/tmp/composer/byfn-network.json`.

This connection profile now describes the fabric network setup, all the peers, orderers and certificate authorities that are part of the network, it defines all the organizations that are participating in the network and also defines the channel's on this network. {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} can only interact with a single channel so only one channel should be defined.

<h2 class='alice'>Step Three: Customizing the connection profile for Org1</h2>

This is just a case of specifying the organization that `alice` belongs to, in a `client` section with optional timeouts,  add the following block into the above connection profile `/tmp/composer/byfn-network.json`, between the `version` property and just before the `channel` property - once done, save it as a NEW file called  `/tmp/composer/org1/byfn-network-org1.json`.

        "client": {
            "organization": "Org1",
            "connection": {
                "timeout": {
                    "peer": {
                        "endorser": "300",
                        "eventHub": "300",
                        "eventReg": "300"
                    },
                    "orderer": "300"
                }
            }
        },

So the section of the profile should look like

        ...
        "version": "1.0.0",
        "client": {
            "organization": "Org1",
            "connection": {
                "timeout": {
                    "peer": {
                        "endorser": "300",
                        "eventHub": "300",
                        "eventReg": "300"
                    },
                    "orderer": "300"
                }
            }
        },
        "channel": {
        ...

<h2 class='bob'>Step Four: Building a connection profile for Org2</h2>

Repeat the same process for `bob` - but this time specify the organization as `Org2` and then save the file as `/tmp/composer/byfn-network-org2.json` - so the section of the profile should look like:

        ...
        "version": "1.0.0",
        "client": {
            "organization": "Org2",
            "connection": {
                "timeout": {
                    "peer": {
                        "endorser": "300",
                        "eventHub": "300",
                        "eventReg": "300"
                    },
                    "orderer": "300"
                }
            }
        },
        "channel": {
        ...

<h2 class='alice'>Step Five: Locating the certificate and private key for the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} administrator for Org1</h2>

The administrator for our {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} Org1 network is a user called `Admin@org1.example.com`. The certificates and private key files for this user are stored in the directory:

    crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/Admin@org1.example.com/msp


You must first locate the certificate file for this user. The certificate is the public part of the identity. The certificate file can be found in the `signcerts` subdirectory and is named `Admin@org1.example.com-cert.pem`.

Next, you must locate the private key file for this user. The private key is used to sign transactions as this identity. The private key file can be found in the `keystore` subdirectory. The name of the private key file is a long hexadecimal string, with a suffix of `_sk`, for example: `78f2139bfcfc0edc7ada0801650ed785a11cfcdef3f9c36f3c8ca2ebfa00a59c_sk`. The name will change every time the configuration is generated, hence the wildcard below.

Remember the path to both of these files - or copy them into the same directory as the connection profile file `/tmp/composer/org1/byfn-network-org1.json` that you created in 'Step Three'. You will need these files in the next steps.

Use the following commands to do this:


    export ORG1=crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org1.example.com/users/Admin@org1.example.com/msp

    cp -p $ORG1/signcerts/A*.pem /tmp/composer/org1

    cp -p $ORG1/keystore/*_sk /tmp/composer/org1

<h2 class='bob'>Step Six: Locating the certificate and private key for the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} administrator for Org2</h2>

The administrator for our {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network is a user called `Admin@org2.example.com`. The certificates and private key files for this user are stored in the directory:

    crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/Admin@org2.example.com/msp

You must first locate the certificate file for this user. The certificate is the public part of the identity. The certificate file can be found in the `signcerts` subdirectory and is named `Admin@org2.example.com-cert.pem`.

Next, you must locate the private key file for this user. The private key is used to sign transactions as this identity. The private key file can be found in the `keystore` subdirectory. The name of the private key file is a long hexadecimal string, with a suffix of `_sk`, for example `d4889cb2a32e167bf7aeced872a214673ee5976b63a94a6a4e61c135ca2f2dbb_sk`. The name will change every time the configuration is generated.

Remember the path to both of these files, or copy them into the same directory as the connection profile file `/tmp/composer/byfn-network-org2.json` that you created in step four. You will need these files in the next steps.

Use the following commands to do this:


    export ORG2=crypto-config/peerOrganizations/org2.example.com/users/Admin@org2.example.com/msp

    cp -p $ORG2/signcerts/A*.pem /tmp/composer/org2

    cp -p $ORG2/keystore/*_sk /tmp/composer/org2

<h2 class='alice'>Step Seven: Creating business network cards for the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} administrator for Org1</h2>

In this step you will create business network cards for the administrator to use to deploy the blockchain business network to the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network.

Run the `composer card create` command to create a business network card using the connection profile for `Org1`. You must specify the path to all three files that you either created or located in the previous steps: (note: the _sk_ file will differ.)

    composer card create -p /tmp/composer/org1/byfn-network-org1.json -u PeerAdmin -c /tmp/composer/org1/Admin@org1.example.com-cert.pem -k /tmp/composer/org1/*_sk -r PeerAdmin -r ChannelAdmin -f PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1.card

If the command works successfully, a business network card file called `PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1.card` will have been written to the current directory.

<h2 class='bob'>Step Eight: Creating business network cards for the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} administrator for Org2</h2>

In this step you will create business network cards for the administrator to use to deploy the blockchain business network to the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} network.

Run the `composer card create` command to create a business network card using the connection profile for `Org2`. You must specify the path to all three files that you either created or located in the previous steps:

    composer card create -p /tmp/composer/org2/byfn-network-org2.json -u PeerAdmin -c /tmp/composer/org2/Admin@org2.example.com-cert.pem -k /tmp/composer/org2/*_sk -r PeerAdmin -r ChannelAdmin -f PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2.card

If the command works successfully, a business network card file called `PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2.card` will have been written to the current directory.

<h2 class='alice'>Step Nine: Importing the business network cards for the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} administrator for Org1</h2>

Run the `composer card import` command to import the business network card for `Org1` into the wallet:

    composer card import -f PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1.card --card PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1

If the command works successfully, a business network card called `PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1` will have been imported into the wallet.

<h2 class='bob'>Step Ten: Importing the business network cards for the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} administrator for Org2</h2>

Run the `composer card import` command to import the business network card for `Org2` into the wallet:

    composer card import -f PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2.card --card PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2

If the command works successfully, a business network card called `PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2` will have been imported into the wallet.

<h2 class='alice'>Step Eleven: Installing the business network onto the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} peer nodes for Org1</h2>

Run the `composer network install` command to install the business network onto all of the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} peer nodes for `Org1` that you specified in the connection profile file you created in 'Step Three':

    composer network install --card PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1 --archiveFile trade-network.bna

As you can see from the above, we are using a {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} business network called `trade-network` to test our multi-org environment. You will need a file `trade-network.bna` (business network archive, from our sample networks) to do the test. If you don't have this, just go to https://composer-playground.mybluemix.net/ and deploy the `trade-network` sample in the online Playground, then 'connect' to the business network as 'admin', change the version number to `0.1.14` in the lower left, and export it to the current directory as `trade-network.bna`. The business network has a *version* property specified in a `package.json` file. That version must be specified when the business network is started using the `composer start` command in Step Seventeen. If you are using the `trade-network` sample network, the version is `0.1.14`. (Note: If you are planning on using a different network, such as the Composer tutorial network `tutorial-network` as your business network,  you would need to specify that file in the `network install` command above and thereafter, as the business network archive in this tutorial, as well as the correct version number for this business network).

A useful feature of the `network install` command is that it will output the name of the business network and the version number that has just been installed and you can note these down for use in 'Step Seventeen' later.

<h2 class='bob'>Step Twelve: Installing the business network onto the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} peer nodes for Org2</h2>

Run the `composer network install` command to install the business network onto all of the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} peer nodes for `Org2` that you specified in the connection profile file you created in step four:

    composer network install --card PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2 --archiveFile trade-network.bna

<h2 class='everybody'>Step Thirteen: Defining the endorsement policy for the business network</h2>

A running business network has an endorsement policy, which defines the rules around which organizations must endorse transactions before they can be committed to the blockchain. By default, a business network is deployed with an endorsement policy that states that only one organization has to endorse a transaction before it can be committed to the blockchain.

In real world blockchain business networks, multiple organizations will want to ensure that they endorse transactions before they can be committed to the blockchain, and so the default endorsement policy is not suitable. Instead, you can specify a custom endorsement policy when you start a business network.

You can find more information on endorsement policies in the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} documentation, in [Endorsement policies](https://hyperledger-fabric.readthedocs.io/en/release/endorsement-policies.html).

> Please note that the endorsement policies used for a business network must be in the JSON format used by the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} Node.js SDK. This is a different format to the simple endorsement policy format used by the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} CLI, which you will see in the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} documentation.

Create an endorsement policy file called `/tmp/composer/endorsement-policy.json` with the following contents and save it to disk. You will use this file in later steps, so remember where you place it!

    {
        "identities": [
            {
                "role": {
                    "name": "member",
                    "mspId": "Org1MSP"
                }
            },
            {
                "role": {
                    "name": "member",
                    "mspId": "Org2MSP"
                }
            }
        ],
        "policy": {
            "2-of": [
                {
                    "signed-by": 0
                },
                {
                    "signed-by": 1
                }
            ]
        }
    }

The endorsement policy you have just created states that both `Org1` and `Org2` must endorse transactions in the business network before they can be committed to the blockchain. If `Org1` or `Org2` do not endorse transactions, or disagree on the result of a transaction, then the transaction will be rejected by the business network.

<h2 class='everybody'>Step Fourteen: Understanding and selecting the business network administrators</h2>

When a business network is started, the business network must be configured with a set of initial participants. These participants will be responsible for bootstrapping the business network and onboarding other participants into the business network. In {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}}, we call these initial participants the business network administrators.

In our business network, the organizations `Org1` and `Org2` have equal rights. Each organization will provide a business network administrator for the business network, and those business network administrators will onboard the other participants in their organizations. The business network administrator for `Org1` will be Alice, and the business network administrator for `Org2` will be Bob.

When the business network is started, the certificates (the public part of the identity) for all of the business network administrators must be passed to the organization performing the commands to start the business network. After the business network has been started, all of the business network administrators can use their identities to interact with the business network.

You can find more information on business network administrators in [Deploying Business Networks](../business-network/bnd-deploy.html).

<h2 class='alice'>Step Fifteen: Retrieving business network administrator certificates for Org1</h2>

Run the `composer identity request` command to retrieve certificates for Alice to use as the business network administrator for `Org1`:

    composer identity request -c PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1 -u admin -s adminpw -d alice

The `-u admin` and the `-s adminpw` options to this command correspond to the default user registered with the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} CA (Certificate Authority).

The certficates will be placed into a directory called `alice` in the current working directory. There are three certificate files created, but only two are important. These are `admin-pub.pem`, the certificate (including the public key), and `admin-priv.pem`, the private key. Only the `admin-pub.pem` file is suitable for sharing with other organizations. The `admin-priv.pem` file must be kept secret as it can be used to sign transactions on behalf of the issuing organization.

<h2 class='bob'>Step Sixteen: Retrieving business network administrator certificates for Org2</h2>

Run the `composer identity request` command to retrieve certificates for Bob to use as the business network administrator for `Org2`:

    composer identity request -c PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org2 -u admin -s adminpw -d bob

The `-u admin` and the `-s adminpw` options to this command correspond to the default user registered with the {{site.data.conrefs.hlf_full}} CA (Certificate Authority).

The certficates will be placed into a directory called `bob` in the current working directory. There are three certificate files created, but only two are important. These are `admin-pub.pem`, the certificate (including the public key), and `admin-priv.pem`, the private key. Only the `admin-pub.pem` file is suitable for sharing with other organizations. The `admin-priv.pem` file must be kept secret as it can be used to sign transactions on behalf of the issuing organization.

<h2 class='alice'>Step Seventeen: Starting the business network</h2>

Run the `composer network start` command to start the business network. Only `Org1` needs to perform this operation. This command uses the `/tmp/composer/endorsement-policy.json` file created in step thirteen, and the `admin-pub.pem` files created by both Alice and Bob in step fifteen and step sixteen, so you must ensure that all of these files are accessible to this command:

    composer network start -c PeerAdmin@byfn-network-org1 -n trade-network -V 0.1.14 -o endorsementPolicyFile=/tmp/composer/endorsement-policy.json -A alice -C alice/admin-pub.pem -A bob -C bob/admin-pub.pem

Once this command completes, the business network will have been started. Both Alice and Bob will be able to access the business network, start to set up the business network, and onboard other participants from their respective organizations. However, both Alice and Bob must create new business network cards with the certificates that they created in the previous steps so that they can access the business network.

<h2 class='alice'>Step Eighteen: Creating a business network card to access the business network as Org1</h2>

Run the `composer card create` command to create a business network card that Alice, the business network administrator for `Org1`, can use to access the business network:

    composer card create -p /tmp/composer/org1/byfn-network-org1.json -u alice -n trade-network -c alice/admin-pub.pem -k alice/admin-priv.pem

Run the `composer card import` command to import the business network card that you just created:

    composer card import -f alice@trade-network.card

Run the `composer network ping` command to test the connection to the blockchain business network:

    composer network ping -c alice@trade-network

If the command completes successfully, then you should see the fully qualified participant identifier `org.hyperledger.composer.system.NetworkAdmin#alice` in the output from the command. You can now use this business network card to interact with the blockchain business network and onboard other participants in your organization.

Lets create a participant, issue an identity (mapped to that participant) and create an asset on the blockchain network as that identity.

Run the `composer participant add` command below, copying it to the command line to execute:

    composer participant add -c alice@trade-network -d '{"$class":"org.example.trading.Trader","tradeId":"trader1-org1", "firstName":"Jo","lastName":"Doe"}'

Next create the identity for `trader1-org1` with the `composer issue identity` command below:

    composer identity issue -c alice@trade-network -f jo.card -u jdoe -a "resource:org.example.trading.Trader#trader1-org1"

Import the card and test it

    composer card import -f jo.card

    composer network ping -c jdoe@trade-network

Next we will create an asset - From the command line, submit a transaction to create a Commodity asset, as participant `jdoe` (or alternatively, if you already have Composer Playground installed, connect as `jdoe@trade-network` to `trade-network` to create the asset 'EMA' - the JSON snippet is shown below ).

To create the asset using the CLI - copy the `transaction submit` sequence below - it creates a Commodity asset for you:

    composer transaction submit --card jdoe@trade-network -d '{"$class": "org.hyperledger.composer.system.AddAsset", "targetRegistry" : "resource:org.hyperledger.composer.system.AssetRegistry#org.example.trading.Commodity", "resources": [{"$class": "org.example.trading.Commodity","tradingSymbol":"EMA", "description":"Corn commodity","mainExchange":"EURONEXT", "quantity":"10","owner":"resource:org.example.trading.Trader#trader1-org1"}]}'

Or alternatively, to create in Playground - copy the following:

    {
      "$class": "org.example.trading.Commodity",
      "tradingSymbol": "EMA",
      "description": "Corn commodity",
      "mainExchange": "EURONEXT",
      "quantity": 10,
      "owner": "resource:org.example.trading.Trader#trader1-org1"
    }

Finally, do a `composer network list` to confirm the generated artifacts in the business network:

    composer network list -c jdoe@trade-network

<h2 class='bob'>Step Nineteen: Creating a business network card to access the business network as Org2</h2>

Run the `composer card create` command to create a business network card that Bob, the business network administrator for `Org2`, can use to access the business network:

    composer card create -p /tmp/composer/org2/byfn-network-org2.json -u bob -n trade-network -c bob/admin-pub.pem -k bob/admin-priv.pem

Run the `composer card import` command to import the business network card that you just created:

    composer card import -f bob@trade-network.card

Run the `composer network ping` command to test the connection to the blockchain business network:

    composer network ping -c bob@trade-network

If the command completes successfully, then you should see the fully qualified participant identifier `org.hyperledger.composer.system.NetworkAdmin#bob` in the output from the command. Let's onboard another Trader, this time for Org 2:

Once again, create a participant, issue an identity (mapped to that participant) - as we already have an asset on the blockchain network, we will use a transaction to change the ownership (from Org1 trader to an Org2 trader):

Run the `composer participant add` command below, copying it to the command line to execute:

    composer participant add -c bob@trade-network -d '{"$class":"org.example.trading.Trader","tradeId":"trader2-org2", "firstName":"Dave","lastName":"Lowe"}'

Next create the identity for `trader2-org2` with the `composer issue identity` command below:

    composer identity issue -c bob@trade-network -f dave.card -u dlowe -a "resource:org.example.trading.Trader#trader2-org2"

Import the card and test it

    composer card import -f dave.card

    composer network ping -c dlowe@trade-network

Lastly, submit a transaction to change ownership of the Commodity asset created earlier. We will submit the transaction as the asset owner Jon Doe and transfer it to trader 'Dave Lowe'. We will then verify the ownership change has occurred as the Org 2 trader participant mapped to the `dlowe` identity: Perform the step below.

    composer transaction submit --card jdoe@trade-network -d '{"$class":"org.example.trading.Trade","commodity":"resource:org.example.trading.Commodity#EMA","newOwner":"resource:org.example.trading.Trader#trader2-org2"}'


Finally, do a `composer network list` as the Org 2 trader participant to confirm the change of ownership on the asset:

    composer network list -c dlowe@trade-network

<h2 class='everybody'>Conclusion</h2>

In this tutorial you have seen how to configure a blockchain network based on {{site.data.conrefs.composer_full}} in a multi-organizational setup.  You've also learned how to deploy a business network (such as our Commodities trading network) to that blockchain network and perform some simple transactions as participants in each organization, using identities that were issued by the Certificate of Authorities in either organization.
